[New Entry] JavaScript Strings: `.valueOf()` (#1023)
Codecademy/docs: content/javascript/concepts/strings/terms/valueOf/valueOf.md

---
Title: '.valueOf()'
Description: 'Returns the value of a String object as a string.'
Subjects:
  - 'Web Development'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:

>   - 'Strings'
>   - 'Methods'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Methods'
  - 'Objects'
  - 'Strings'
```

CatalogContent:
  - 'introduction-to-javascript'
  - 'paths/front-end-engineer-career-path'
---

> Returns the primitive value of a String object, similar to the `toString()` method of JavaScript Strings. Typically the String `valueOf()` method (not to be confused with the Object `valueOf()` method) is not used explicitly in code, but rather behind the scenes within JavaScript.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`.valueOf()`** method returns the primitive value of a `String` object, similar to the `toString()` method of JavaScript Strings. This method is not used explicitly in code, but rather behind the scenes within JavaScript.

> **Note:** This method is for `String` objects and not to be confused with the `.valueOf()` method of the `Object` class.
```

For Docs entries, we prefer to **bold** the first mention of a topic, concept, or term at hand. Also, is there a way to unpack this sentence a little more?

> This method is not used explicitly in code, but rather behind the scenes within JavaScript.

## Syntax

```js

> string.valueOf();

Reviewer: ```suggestion
stringObject.valueOf();
```

```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The `.valueOf` method takes no parameters.

```

## Example

> Using the `new` constructor with `String()` creates a String '_wrapper_' object. The `valueOf()` method returns the primitive value of such a String object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All primitive string values are wrapped in a `String` object (`new String(value)`). In the following example, this primitive value is returned by the `.valueOf()` method:
```

```js
const name = new String('Bill');

> console.log(name); // [String: 'Bill']
> console.log(name.valueOf()); // 'Bill'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
console.log(name);
console.log(name.valueOf());
```

```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

This will print the following:

```

And then add a \```shell snippet that looks like this:

```shell
[String: 'Bill']
Bill
```

## Codebyte Example

> `valueOf()` can also be called on variables that contain strings and string literals, although in these cases, its use is redundant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A less common use case for the `.valueOf()` method is calling on variables with string literals or on the string literal directly:
```

> ```codebyte/js

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```codebyte/javascript
```

The signatures for Codebyte snippets are a little different. More details [here](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/content-standards.md#codebytes-runnable-code-blocks).

> const animal = 'cat';
> console.log(animal === animal.valueOf()); // true
> 
> console.log('apple'.valueOf() === 'apple'); // true

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const animal = 'cat';
console.log(animal === animal.valueOf());
console.log('apple'.valueOf() === 'apple');
```

No need for output comments in the Codebyte snippets since they're runnable and the output will be rendered.

---
Title: '.valueOf()'
Description: 'Returns the value of a String object as a string.'
Subjects:
  - 'Web Development'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Methods'
  - 'Objects'
  - 'Strings'
CatalogContent:
  - 'introduction-to-javascript'
  - 'paths/front-end-engineer-career-path'
---

> The **`.valueOf()`** method returns the primitive value of a `String` object, similar to the `toString()` method of JavaScript Strings. Usually this method isn't used in code but is called internally by JavaScript.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **`.valueOf()`** method returns the [primitive](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/javascript/data-types) value of a `String` object, similar to the `.toString()` method of JavaScript Strings. Usually this method isn't used in code but is called internally by JavaScript.
```

Reviewer 2: Primitive here is referring to a primitive data type, or a value that is not an object (no methods/properties). Thinking that by linking the data types entry, this will be more clear.

> The **`.valueOf()`** method returns the [primitive](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/javascript/data-types) value of a `String` object, similar to the `.toString()` method of JavaScript Strings. Usually this method is called internally by JavaScript.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **`.valueOf()`** method returns the [primitive](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/javascript/data-types) value of a `String` object, similar to the `.toString()` method. Usually, this method is called internally by JavaScript.
```

> The **`.valueOf()`** method returns the [primitive](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/javascript/data-types) value of a `String` object, similar to the `.toString()` method of JavaScript Strings. Usually this method isn't used in code but is called internally by JavaScript.

Reviewer 2: Thanks for looking into common use case of this method! Since we have this last sentence here, could we rephrase the preface to the code byte below? (see below)

```suggestion
The **`.valueOf()`** method returns the [primitive](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/javascript/data-types) value of a `String` object, similar to the `.toString()` method of JavaScript Strings. Usually this method is called internally by JavaScript.
```

> > **Note:** This method is for `String` objects and not to be confused with the `.valueOf()` method of the `Object` class.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Note:** This `String` method is not to be confused with the `.valueOf()` method that exists for the `Object` class.
```

> > **Note:** This `String` method is not to be confused with the `.valueOf()` method that exists for the `Object` class.

Reviewer 2: Can we use a different perspective for this note and say something like:

"Objects that are descendants of the `Object` class, including `String`s, inherit the `valueOf()` method."

## Syntax

```js
stringObject.valueOf();
```

> The `.valueOf` method takes no parameters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `.valueOf()` method takes no parameters.
```

## Example

All primitive string values are wrapped in a `String` object (`new String(value)`). In the following example, this primitive value is returned by the `.valueOf()` method:

```js
const name = new String('Bill');
console.log(name);
console.log(name.valueOf());
```

This will print the following:

```shell
[String: 'Bill']
Bill
```

## Codebyte Example

> A less common use case for the `.valueOf()` method is calling on variables with string literals or on the string literal directly:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A less common use case for the `.valueOf()` method is to call it on variables with string literals or on the string literal directly:
```

Reviewer 2: Can we also include a sentence about what the common use case for this method is?

Author: @yangc95 I did as much digging as I could but all I could manage to find were vague references to how JavaScript uses this method 'internally' or 'automatically' and was not typically used, nor needed, explicitly in code. This includes text references in addition to digital ones. Do you know of where I can find additional information?

> A less common use case for the `.valueOf()` method is to call it on variables with string literals or on the string literal directly:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Although the `.valueOf()` method is typically invoked internally by JavaScript, it can be used by calling it on a `String` object:
```
